《groovy in action 2nd》
官网：http://groovy-lang.org/install.html
Groovy enVironment Manager (GVM, http://gvmtool.net)：只有linux版本

前言
groove: n.非常愉快的经历;
groovy是Java’s dynamic friend；
Spock testing framework；
ReGina是本书的缩写；
domain-specific languages：DSL
GDK：groovy开发包；
quality-oriented
代码下载：www.manning.com/GroovyinActionSecondEdition
a professional software developer,architect, trainer, and consultant.

Part 1 The Groovy language
chacpter 1 Your way to Groovy
Grails web application platform 和Spock testing facility都要用groovy.
Meta Object Protocol(MOP)
the compiler, interpreter, and shells
发明人：James Strachan，java开发者在等晚点飞机时学习python时想到的。
即要象python一样功能强大的动态语言，又要对java是友好的JVM语言。
定位：java伴侣；（超级java？）
Rhino is an open-source implementation of JavaScript written entirely in Java.
java友好->动态能力-> Groovy, JavaScript (Rhino), Jython, and JRuby side by side
comparison with Clojure, Scala, Kotlin, Ceylon, Fan, Nice, Newspeak, and Frege.
（语言太它妈多了。。：（）
groovy可以预编译成java字节码；
groovy大部分都是java写的，一小部分是用groovy写的；
groovy运行在JVM中；
Groovy is only a new way of creating ordinary Java classes
Groovy is Java with an additional JAR file as a dependency.
Every Groovy type is a subtype of java.lang.Object.
A Groovy date is a java.util.Date，可以完全当java.util.Date调用；
groovyc compiles
optional typing与dynamically typed的区别
“可选类型”关键在于“可选”。开发人员可以为代码加上类型标注，但这些标注又对代码行为根本没有影响。
write(int c), write(String str),and write(char[] buf). 使用optional typing可区分重载，使用动态类型办不到；
drop-in replacement：java和groovy的class文件可以相互替换；

import java.util.*; // Java
Date today = new Date(); // Java
today = new Date() // Groovy，三光政策：没有导入包，没有类型申请，没有分号；

The Groovy solution is short, precise, and more compact than regular Java
增强的方面：
	language features, 
	libraries specific to Groovy, 
	additions to the existing Java standard classes (Groovy Development Kit, or GDK).
Closures are blocks of code that can be treated as first-class objects
Apache Software Foundation (ASF)管理groovy.
using Java for code that needs to be optimized for runtime performance, and using
Groovy for code that needs to be optimized for flexibility and readability.
